README.md, before:

## Readme

### Table of contents:

Theme, Epic and User Stories
Design and UX
Wireframes
Database model
Features
Future Features
SEO and Marketing
Technologies
Testing
Code Validation
Browser Compatibility
Accessibility Testing
Performance Testing
Manual Testing
User Stories Testing
Debugging and known bugs
Deployment
Credits
Resources
Acknowledgements

Name: Winnifrederico's Wondrous World of Wizards (WWWW)

Live link: https://w-w-w-w.herokuapp.com/

Screenshot:

### Theme, Epic and User Stories

#### Theme

To sell interesting wizard hats (and other wizard associated clothing items) online.

#### Epic

This website will provide the user with an array of wizardly hats and other clothing items, products both expected and unexpected. The website will be simple and easy to use; a good experience for the user that will make their time in the shop, so to speak, welcoming. Each product will have Dungeons and Dragons style stats (link) which will be calculated and presented at checkout along with a randomly generated name (link) to ‘create’ a wizard based on these products. The user can choose to accept the generated wizard name and stats, or keep shopping to get a different wizard.

#### User stories

#### User

As a **user**, I can clearly see the purpose of the site when I land on the home page so that I stay on the site.

As a **user**, I can clearly understand the products I am considering purchasing. so that I can make informed decisions.

As a **user**, I have the option to create a custom made hat so that I can have something that better suits me.

As a **user**, I can get an instant quote for a custom hat so that I know how much I will be spending.

As a **user**, I can complete the payment process quickly and easily so that I don’t get distracted/dissuaded and leave.

As a **user**, I will be notified by email when my order has been placed successfully, so that I have trust in the website and I have the order details in a convenient place.

As a **user**, I have the option for my information to be saved for future purchases so that I can save time on future purchases.

As a **user**, I can edit or delete my user information so that I can have the correct information.

As a **user**, I can easily find the site's privacy policy so that I can use the site knowing I am protected.

As a **user**, I can set the stats of each item, so that I can have an experience outside of the standard online shopping experience.

As a **user**, I can see the final stats of my outfit, so that I can have an experience outside of the standard online shopping experience.

As a **user** I can **update the shopping bag** so that **I can keep track of my shopping while I browse the site**.

As a **user** I can **view my order history** so that **I know what I have already ordered**.

As a **user** I can **comment on blog posts** so that **I can take part in the battle arena**.


#### Owner/staff member

As a **staff member**, I can add products to my shop so that users can see the products I have available.

staff edit and delete

As a **staff member**, I can control stock levels so that I can control the amount of products I sell.

As a **staff member**, I will be notified by email if an order comes in so that I can action the sale.

As a **staff member**, I can view my orders and see the current order status so that I know if there is an order I have to process.

As a **staff member** I can **change the status of an order** so that **I can communicate to other staff that the order has been actioned**.

As a **staff member**, I can easily provide the site privacy policy so that I can communicate with users and increase the legitimacy of my website.

Clear design

Ts and Cs prominent in footer


As a **staff member**, I can use web marketing to increase traffic to my site.

As a **staff member**, I can add blog posts to my site so that I can show expertise on the subject and correspond with my web marketing.

As a **staff member** I can **edit/delete posts** so that **users can see the correct information**.

As a **staff member**, I will be provided with search engine optimisation for my site so that I can receive increased traffic and sales.

As a **staff member** I can **offer a shipping discount to users who sign up for accounts** so that **I receive more users who are more likely to make a purchase/multiple purchases**.

As a **staff member** I can **easily contact the developers to add a custom product** so that **I can add new products to the site**.

User/Owner

As a **user/staff member**, I can sign in and out intuitively so that I can use the website easily.

As a **userstaff member**, I can navigate the website easily and intuitively.


### Design and UX

### Wireframes

Home page

Shop page

Shopping bag view

Checkout view

Standard hat product detail

Custom hat page

User profile page

About Us page (related links)

Database model

Made in Lucidchart.

### Features

Staff able to add custom products: I spent some time developing code for staff to add a custom product, staff were able to add custom products with multiple variables and options for the variables but this was unable to be fed into the quote system without breaking both the bag and checkout systems. After some time I decided to refocus my time for this iteration, for the moment I have a detailed manual form which will hopefully save time not only by being detailed, but the information is saved to the db, so it is easy for the dev to find. For the staff member's peace of mind they will be emailed a copy of the information submitted as well. 

### Future Features


### SEO and Marketing

[Link to Readme documention for SEO and marketing](/SEO_MKTG_README.md)


### Technologies

Languages used:
Python 3
HTML5
CSS
Javascript
Frameworks, Libraries and Programs Used:
Django/allauth - Python framework
Bootstrap - CSS package
AWS - for hosting the images
SQLite (default Django database)
EmailJS/Django email - for sending the personalised/automated emails
GitHub - for hosting the site
Heroku - for the deployment of the site
Gitpod - for editing the files

### Testing

#### Code Validation

Python validator

Javascript validator

HTML validator

CSS validator

#### Browser Compatibility

Browser Compatibility checks were run using BrowserStack and my computer. The results are:

Firefox - 

Chrome - 

Opera - 

Microsoft Edge - 

Due to Bootstrap the styling is not ideal on some browser/OS combinations - this is as per the Bootstrap documentation below. All systems still function as needed on all combinations. Bootstrap Browser Compatibility

#### Accessibility Testing

Accessibility testing was conducted using Accessibility Test.org. The results are:

#### Performance Testing

Performance testing was conducted using Lighthouse. The results are:

#### Manual Testing

I sent the live link to friends and family members for testing and feedback. The site was received positively; design and usability suggestions were considered and acted on. The site was also put up in the Code Institute Slack community for feedback.

### Debugging and known bugs


Custom product model - originally had my calculations in the model but changed it over to the view with help from this Stack Overflow post:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29228627/djangoget-field-values-using-views-py-from-html-form
For custom variables on these products, for pricing was able to have separate function and feed in var_one, two and three, but this meant in front and back end the actual name didn’t show, so both users just saw a letter instead of the label. Options were to have more variables feed into the calc function, which is a bit bulky but the other option was to have all the code from the calc function in each class, making this file three times as long and three times as ugly. I opted for feeding 6 variables into my calculation function over repeating my code.

Getting two different product models into the loot/shopping bag - lots of moving around and googling and renaming, playing with the context file as that was new to me. tried to put in same context file, broke everything. tried parent model classes, didn’t work.
can try feeding product into shopping bag on POST on final quote page, already named product and filtered in in exact same way.
can try separate loop within contexts func
if standard do this, if custom do this, then feed all into context
failing that, just add on POST details into html and db
Fixed custom quoting system by reapplying migrations and changing product id variables - broke when was all the same
separate contexts file within cust_prods
none of that worked, decided to refactor code and shift focus of shop, all products are custom products now. one model, multiple model forms from single model in order for shopping bag to work



### Deployment

#### Publishing
The project was deployed using Heroku. The process is as follows:

Once you have signed up to Heroku, on the top right of the dashboard there is a button labelled 'New'. This will open a dropdown; please select 'Create new app'. On the next page you can choose your region and a name for the project. Then click 'Create app'.

On the next page there is a menu along the top. Navigate to 'Settings', where you will find the config vars. Scroll down to the section named 'Config vars' and click on the button labelled 'Reveal config vars'. Cloudinary (AWS?) and Postgres will both need config vars as per your own details. You will also need to set a secret key. Once the config vars are saved, back in Gitpod save them in an env.py file. Make sure to add env.py to your .gitignore list so that your config vars do not become publically available on Github.

If you scroll back to the top of the page you will find the 'Deploy' tab, which has multiple options for deployment. I used Github for this project. When you click on the Github button a bar will come up for you to search for the repo you wish to connect to.

Once you have connected, you have the option to deploy automatically (the app will update every time you push) or manually (update only when you choose). I chose automatic but you can do what suits you.

After the first push/update, your app will be ready to go!

#### Forking and Cloning

To save a copy of the code and work on it yourself, here are the steps for forking and cloning using Github:
In the repository, click the 'Fork' button, which is on the top right-hand side, next to 'Star'.

Github will automatically create a new repo, which is forked from the original. If you would like to clone it you have two options:
Within the repository, click the 'Code' dropdown, which is located next to 'Add File' on the right (underneath the Settings tab); there is an option to download all files and save a copy locally.

In the same 'Code' dropdown, you can opt to open the code with GitHub Desktop and work from there.

### Resources

Django 3.2 documentation

Bootstrap documentation

Cloudinary/Django documentation/AWS

EmailJS documentation

Guidance with updating and deleting Page instances from GeeksforGeeks.

Photo editing from Pixlr.

Favicon generated from Favicon.io

ERD made with Lucidchart

Wireframes made with Balsamiq.

Privacy Policy generated from (Privacy Policy Generator)[https://www.privacypolicygenerator.info].

### Credits

Assistance on toasts, shopping basket functionality (loot) (?) from Code Institute's Boutique Ado code walkthrough.

All images from Pexels.

In code credits as marked.

### Acknowledgements

Commit message:

Switch product pages from cloudinary to static files for this implementation

README.md, after:

## Readme

### Table of contents:

Theme, Epic and User Stories
Design and UX
Wireframes
Database model
Features
Future Features
SEO and Marketing
Technologies
Testing
Code Validation
Browser Compatibility
Accessibility Testing
Performance Testing
Manual Testing
User Stories Testing
Debugging and known bugs
Deployment
Credits
Resources
Acknowledgements

Name: Winnifrederico's Wondrous World of Wizards (WWWW)

Live link: https://w-w-w-w.herokuapp.com/

Screenshot:

### Theme, Epic and User Stories

#### Theme

To sell interesting wizard hats (and other wizard associated clothing items) online.

#### Epic

This website will provide the user with an array of wizardly hats and other clothing items, products both expected and unexpected. The website will be simple and easy to use; a good experience for the user that will make their time in the shop, so to speak, welcoming. Each product will have Dungeons and Dragons style stats (link) which will be calculated and presented at checkout along with a randomly generated name (link) to ‘create’ a wizard based on these products. The user can choose to accept the generated wizard name and stats, or keep shopping to get a different wizard.

#### User stories

#### User

As a **user**, I can clearly see the purpose of the site when I land on the home page so that I stay on the site.

As a **user**, I can clearly understand the products I am considering purchasing. so that I can make informed decisions.

As a **user**, I have the option to create a custom made hat so that I can have something that better suits me.

As a **user**, I can get an instant quote for a custom hat so that I know how much I will be spending.

As a **user**, I can complete the payment process quickly and easily so that I don’t get distracted/dissuaded and leave.

As a **user**, I will be notified by email when my order has been placed successfully, so that I have trust in the website and I have the order details in a convenient place.

As a **user**, I have the option for my information to be saved for future purchases so that I can save time on future purchases.

As a **user**, I can edit or delete my user information so that I can have the correct information.

As a **user**, I can easily find the site's privacy policy so that I can use the site knowing I am protected.

As a **user**, I can set the stats of each item, so that I can have an experience outside of the standard online shopping experience.

As a **user**, I can see the final stats of my outfit, so that I can have an experience outside of the standard online shopping experience.

As a **user** I can **update the shopping bag** so that **I can keep track of my shopping while I browse the site**.

As a **user** I can **view my order history** so that **I know what I have already ordered**.

As a **user** I can **comment on blog posts** so that **I can take part in the battle arena**.


#### Owner/staff member

As a **staff member**, I can add products to my shop so that users can see the products I have available.

staff edit and delete

As a **staff member**, I can control stock levels so that I can control the amount of products I sell.

As a **staff member**, I will be notified by email if an order comes in so that I can action the sale.

As a **staff member**, I can view my orders and see the current order status so that I know if there is an order I have to process.

As a **staff member** I can **change the status of an order** so that **I can communicate to other staff that the order has been actioned**.

As a **staff member**, I can easily provide the site privacy policy so that I can communicate with users and increase the legitimacy of my website.

Clear design

Ts and Cs prominent in footer


As a **staff member**, I can use web marketing to increase traffic to my site.

As a **staff member**, I can add blog posts to my site so that I can show expertise on the subject and correspond with my web marketing.

As a **staff member** I can **edit/delete posts** so that **users can see the correct information**.

As a **staff member**, I will be provided with search engine optimisation for my site so that I can receive increased traffic and sales.

As a **staff member** I can **offer a shipping discount to users who sign up for accounts** so that **I receive more users who are more likely to make a purchase/multiple purchases**.

As a **staff member** I can **easily contact the developers to add a custom product** so that **I can add new products to the site**.

User/Owner

As a **user/staff member**, I can sign in and out intuitively so that I can use the website easily.

As a **userstaff member**, I can navigate the website easily and intuitively.


### Design and UX

### Wireframes

Home page

Shop page

Shopping bag view

Checkout view

Standard hat product detail

Custom hat page

User profile page

About Us page (related links)

Database model

Made in Lucidchart.

### Features

Staff able to add custom products: I spent some time developing code for staff to add a custom product, staff were able to add custom products with multiple variables and options for the variables but this was unable to be fed into the quote system without breaking both the bag and checkout systems. After some time I decided to refocus my time for this iteration, for the moment I have a detailed manual form which will hopefully save time not only by being detailed, but the information is saved to the db, so it is easy for the dev to find. For the staff member's peace of mind they will be emailed a copy of the information submitted as well. 

### Future Features


### SEO and Marketing

[Link to Readme documention for SEO and marketing](/SEO_MKTG_README.md)


### Technologies

Languages used:
Python 3
HTML5
CSS
Javascript
Frameworks, Libraries and Programs Used:
Django/allauth - Python framework
Bootstrap - CSS package
AWS - for hosting the images
SQLite (default Django database)
EmailJS/Django email - for sending the personalised/automated emails
GitHub - for hosting the site
Heroku - for the deployment of the site
Gitpod - for editing the files

### Testing

#### Code Validation

Python validator

Javascript validator

HTML validator

CSS validator

#### Browser Compatibility

Browser Compatibility checks were run using BrowserStack and my computer. The results are:

Firefox - 

Chrome - 

Opera - 

Microsoft Edge - 

Due to Bootstrap the styling is not ideal on some browser/OS combinations - this is as per the Bootstrap documentation below. All systems still function as needed on all combinations. Bootstrap Browser Compatibility

#### Accessibility Testing

Accessibility testing was conducted using Accessibility Test.org. The results are:

#### Performance Testing

Performance testing was conducted using Lighthouse. The results are:

#### Manual Testing

I sent the live link to friends and family members for testing and feedback. The site was received positively; design and usability suggestions were considered and acted on. The site was also put up in the Code Institute Slack community for feedback.

### Debugging and known bugs


Custom product model - originally had my calculations in the model but changed it over to the view with help from this Stack Overflow post:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/29228627/djangoget-field-values-using-views-py-from-html-form
For custom variables on these products, for pricing was able to have separate function and feed in var_one, two and three, but this meant in front and back end the actual name didn’t show, so both users just saw a letter instead of the label. Options were to have more variables feed into the calc function, which is a bit bulky but the other option was to have all the code from the calc function in each class, making this file three times as long and three times as ugly. I opted for feeding 6 variables into my calculation function over repeating my code.

Getting two different product models into the loot/shopping bag - lots of moving around and googling and renaming, playing with the context file as that was new to me. tried to put in same context file, broke everything. tried parent model classes, didn’t work.
can try feeding product into shopping bag on POST on final quote page, already named product and filtered in in exact same way.
can try separate loop within contexts func
if standard do this, if custom do this, then feed all into context
failing that, just add on POST details into html and db
Fixed custom quoting system by reapplying migrations and changing product id variables - broke when was all the same
separate contexts file within cust_prods
none of that worked, decided to refactor code and shift focus of shop, all products are custom products now. one model, multiple model forms from single model in order for shopping bag to work

There is currently no option for a staff member to add a product directly, which will be a future feature. I was able to create a cascading form which had associated models for the options and the variables, but I was unable to feed that into the quote system. For this iteration, in it's place I have a very detailed staff submission form, to provide as many details as possible so that implementing the submission takes as little time as possible. Both the developer and staff member are emailed the details. The staff member is emailed the details in order to assure them that the form went through and it will be actioned.


### Deployment

#### Publishing
The project was deployed using Heroku. The process is as follows:

Once you have signed up to Heroku, on the top right of the dashboard there is a button labelled 'New'. This will open a dropdown; please select 'Create new app'. On the next page you can choose your region and a name for the project. Then click 'Create app'.

On the next page there is a menu along the top. Navigate to 'Settings', where you will find the config vars. Scroll down to the section named 'Config vars' and click on the button labelled 'Reveal config vars'. Cloudinary (AWS?) and Postgres will both need config vars as per your own details. You will also need to set a secret key. Once the config vars are saved, back in Gitpod save them in an env.py file. Make sure to add env.py to your .gitignore list so that your config vars do not become publically available on Github.

If you scroll back to the top of the page you will find the 'Deploy' tab, which has multiple options for deployment. I used Github for this project. When you click on the Github button a bar will come up for you to search for the repo you wish to connect to.

Once you have connected, you have the option to deploy automatically (the app will update every time you push) or manually (update only when you choose). I chose automatic but you can do what suits you.

After the first push/update, your app will be ready to go!

#### Forking and Cloning

To save a copy of the code and work on it yourself, here are the steps for forking and cloning using Github:
In the repository, click the 'Fork' button, which is on the top right-hand side, next to 'Star'.

Github will automatically create a new repo, which is forked from the original. If you would like to clone it you have two options:
Within the repository, click the 'Code' dropdown, which is located next to 'Add File' on the right (underneath the Settings tab); there is an option to download all files and save a copy locally.

In the same 'Code' dropdown, you can opt to open the code with GitHub Desktop and work from there.

### Resources

Django 3.2 documentation

Bootstrap documentation

Cloudinary/Django documentation/AWS

EmailJS documentation

Guidance with updating and deleting Page instances from GeeksforGeeks.

Photo editing from Pixlr.

Favicon generated from Favicon.io

ERD made with Lucidchart

Wireframes made with Balsamiq.

Privacy Policy generated from (Privacy Policy Generator)[https://www.privacypolicygenerator.info].

### Credits

Assistance on toasts, shopping basket functionality (loot) (?) from Code Institute's Boutique Ado code walkthrough.

All images from Pexels.

In code credits as marked.

### Acknowledgements
